# COPD-Detection
An IoT based COPD detection and prevention device

Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease or COPD is a chronic inﬂammatory lung disease that causes obstructed airﬂow from the lungs. Symptoms include breathing diﬃculty, cough, mucus (sputum) production and wheezing. It’s caused by long-term exposure to irritating gases or particulate matter, most often from cigarette smoke. People with COPD are at increased risk of developing heart disease, lung cancer and a variety of other conditions. In India, more than 8% men and 5% women are believed to be aﬀected with this disease. Globally there are more than 3.5 million people who lose their lives due to this disease. A person suﬀering from COPD inhales less oxygen and therefore, the brain receives limited supply of oxygen which makes the person brain dead or dead. The alveolus becomes stiﬀ in this disease leading to short breathing. The existing solution for monitoring respiratory rate is costly and inconsistent. The proposed solution for this problem is to develop a belt ﬁtted with pressure sensor connected using a micro-controller that continuously monitors the respiration rate of the patient and alerts the concerned care-takers and health centers at the time of adversities. The belt is to be tied around the chest of the patient. It is found that most patients die while in sleep when having this issue. The device proposed also does the task of breaking the sleep by shocking the patient out of sleep using vibrator motor. This device will work as a boon for the COPD patients.


